---
title: "Depression"
---
Depression can present itself in different ways. There are gradations and variations in the types of depression people experience. Dysthymia usually has fewer symptoms than other forms of depression but the person can feel just as bad. Major depression is more severe and can come once or recur many times in a persons life. Manic episodes are times when a person feels the opposite of depressed. Irrationally high, with excess energy and a feeling that they are “on top of the world”. This can alternate with depressive episodes. When this happens we say there is a Bipolar disorder. In adolescents sometimes anger, acting out or truancy may be the primary symptoms.

The depressed person hates feeling bad, they hate it so much sometimes they hate themselves for feeling this way. Other people all seem to be enjoying life but they are not. This makes them feel even worse. In fact depression can lead to people just laying in bed because they feel so poorly. They don’t have the motivation to move, after all everything feels hopeless. The activities they used to enjoy like visiting with friends or hobbies are no longer enjoyable. They tend to have a negative view of themselves, their future and the whole world. Depression can lead to pains in your body, olfactory hallucinations, hearing things, impairments in memory, concentration, sleep, and feelings of suicide. Depression is treatable with CBT (Cognitive Behavior Therapy) and/or medications in combination with CBT can be of help as well.