---
title: "English"
url-title: "english"
---
At the time of the evaluation:
<ul>
    <li>Connect at the appointed hour, put your device in do not disturb mode to prevent calls from interfering in the evaluation</li>
    <li>This evaluation is all about you and your case. Be honest. Listen to the instructions about what is being asked. Feel free to ask for a short break at any time.</li>
    <li>Have you’re a list of your medications and dosages available</li>
    <li>Write down important dates, for example, birth dates, dates of marriage, separation or divorce, date of entry into the United States.</li>
    <li><b>A standard evaluation with a delivery time of 5-7 business days is $1400. We take Zelle, Venmo, Personal Checks, Bank Checks, Money orders and Cash. We do accept credit cards.</b> The doctor is interviewing you and providing an expert opinion he is willing to testify to. This is not covered by health insurance.</li>
        <ul>
            <li>Rush evaluations needed on tighter timelines cost more. The fee depends on the date needed, the complexity of the evaluation and the amount of time Dr. Vermilyea will need to devote to it before the desired delivery date.</li>
            <li>Testimony is a separate charge but rarely necessary.</li>
        </ul>
</ul>

In the past, our clinical interviews have helped clients in cases involving:
<ul>
  <li>Extreme Hardship evaluations: Documenting the practical, financial and emotional consequences of family separation and its psychological consequences and nature of the hardship to the petitioner.</li>
  <li>Forgiveness evaluations: Documenting the practical, financial and emotional consequences of the family members continued absence from the United States due to being barred from reentry.</li>
  <li>Asylum cases: Documenting the psychological impact of past persecution and/or fear of future persecution if the petitioner is returned to their country of origin.</li>
  <li>Spousal/partner abuse and violence (VAWA) cases: Documenting the psychological impact of the abuse suffered whether it is abuse of a physical, sexual, emotional or financial nature.</li>
  <li>For U-Visa cases: Establishing the impact of the violent crime the petitioner was exposed to and the effect it has had on them.</li>
</ul>

We can only do evaluations of petitioners who are:
<ul>
    <li>Located in Massachusetts at the time of the video interview</li>
    <li>Are age 12 or over with the consent of their parent</li>
    <li><b><i><u>Please note: We do not do evaluations for medical certification of inability to take the citizenship examinations, or people who are out of state at the time of the evaluation.</u></i></b>
</li>
</ul>

We offer to testify to our reports, but there is an additional fee to stand by for telephonic  testimony, or to physically appear in court for your case.

We work closely with you and your client.

To Schedule an evaluation:
<ul>
    <li>Use the availability <u><a href="/calendar/">calendar</a></u> to pick an open time. If you need an interpreter it is best to consult with them about a mutually agreeable time form the calendar.</li>
    <li>Your time is reserved for YOU. When you make an appointment you are committing to that time though you can makes changes if need be to accommodate an interpreter, or if you have an emergency. Make sure and provide 48 hour’s notice if you cannot attend or there is a $400 late cancellation fee for the Dr. Vermilyea’s time.</li>
    <li>Once you select a time fill out the questions and Dr. Vermilyea will confirm your appointment.  When he confirms it you will see on the calendar that it is no longer available to anyone else.</li>
    <li>You will receive an invitation at your email to a secure google meeting. You and your attorney can call in from separate locations. You do not need to be in the same room.</li>
</ul>

Before the evaluation.
<ul>
    <li>If you are using in interpreter, make sure that they are available on that day. In Dr. Vermilyea’s experience a professional interpreter is almost always better and provides a better evaluation for you. Don’t cut corners on this, it’s worth it. We use Mrs. Tanya Pineda-Lehnert as our preferred interpreter for Spanish and Portuguese.  Contact her at 617-669-3419</li>
</ul>

Call Mrs. Pineda-Lehnert as soon as you select a time to make sure she can be there. Or contact her and ask her to help schedule your evaluation at a time that works for both of you.

<b><i><u>It is your responsibility to make sure there is a translator available.</u></i></b>
<ul>
    <li>Test your WI-FI connection and make sure you have the link.</li>
    <li>If you have an affidavit, police report, medical summary from a physician, or something else for Dr. Vermilyea to review before the evaluation email them to him at jvermilyea@cbtallc.com</li>
    <li>If you are not sure if he needs to see what you are sending text him and ask at 339-224-7695</li>
</ul>