---
title: "English"
url-title: "english"
---
In the past, our clinical interviews have helped clients in cases involving:
<ul>
  <li>Extreme Hardship evaluations: Documenting the practical, financial and emotional consequences of family separation and its psychological consequences and nature of the hardship to the petitioner.</li>
  <li>Forgiveness evaluations: Documenting the practical, financial and emotional consequences of the family members continued absence from the United States due to being barred from reentry.</li>
  <li>Asylum cases: Documenting the psychological impact of past persecution and/or fear of future persecution if the petitioner is returned to their country of origin.</li>
  <li>Spousal/partner abuse and violence (VAWA) cases: Documenting the psychological impact of the abuse suffered whether it is abuse of a physical, sexual, emotional or financial nature.</li>
  <li>For U-Visa cases: Establishing the impact of the violent crime the petitioner was exposed to and the effect it has had on them.</li>
</ul>

We can only do evaluations of petitioners who are:
<ul>
    <li>Located in Massachusetts at the time of the video interview</li>
    <li>Are age 12 or over with the consent of their parent</li>
</ul>

We offer to testify to our reports, but there is an additional fee to stand by for telephonic  testimony, or to physically appear in court for your case.

We work closely with you and your client.

<b><i><u>Please note: We do not do evaluations for medical certification of inability to take the citizenship examinations, or people who are out of state at the time of the evaluation.</u></i></b>

To Schedule an evaluation:
<ul>
    <li>Use the availability calendar [Tri insert link?]  to pick an open time. If you need an interpreter it is best to consult with them about a mutually agreeable time form the calendar.</li>
    <li>Your time is reserved for YOU. When you make an appointment you are committing to that time though you can makes changes if need be to accommodate an interpreter, or if you have an emergency. Make sure and provide 48 hour’s notice if you cannot attend or there is a $400 late cancellation fee for the Dr. Vermilyea’s time.</li>
    <li>Once you select a time fill out the questions and Dr. Vermilyea will confirm your appointment.  When he confirms it you will see on the calendar that it is no longer available to anyone else.</li>
    <li>You will receive an invitation at your email to a secure google meeting. You and your attorney can call in from separate locations. You do not need to be in the same room.</li>
</ul>

Before the evaluation.
<ul>
    <li>If you are using in interpreter, make sure that they are available on that day. In Dr. Vermilyea’s experience a professional interpreter is almost always better and provides a better evaluation for you. Don’t cut corners on this it’s worth it. We use Mrs. Tanya Pineda-Lehnert as our preferred interpreter for Spanish and Portuguese.  Contact her at 617-669-3419</li>
</ul>

Call Mrs. Pineda-Lehnert as soon as you select a time to make sure she can be there. Or contact her and ask her to help schedule your evaluation at a time that works for both of you.

<b><i><u>It is your responsibility to make sure there is a translator available.</u></i></b>